\707. Design Linked List

Medium

Design your implementation of the linked list. You can choose to use a singly or doubly linked list.
 A node in a singly linked list should have two attributes: `val` and `next`. `val` is the value of the current node, and `next` is a pointer/reference to the next node.
 If you want to use the doubly linked list, you will need one more attribute `prev` to indicate the previous node in the linked list. Assume all nodes in the linked list are **0-indexed**.

Implement the `MyLinkedList` class:

- `MyLinkedList()` Initializes the `MyLinkedList` object.
- `int get(int index)` Get the value of the `indexth` node in the linked list. If the index is invalid, return `-1`.
- `void addAtHead(int val)` Add a node of value `val` before the first element of the linked list. After the insertion, the new node will be the first node of the linked list.
- `void addAtTail(int val)` Append a node of value `val` as the last element of the linked list.
- `void addAtIndex(int index, int val)` Add a node of value `val` before the `indexth` node in the linked list. If `index` equals the length of the linked list, the node will be appended to the end of the linked list. If `index` is greater than the length, the node **will not be inserted**.
- `void deleteAtIndex(int index)` Delete the `indexth` node in the linked list, if the index is valid.

 

**Example 1:**

```
Input
["MyLinkedList", "addAtHead", "addAtTail", "addAtIndex", "get", "deleteAtIndex", "get"]
[[], [1], [3], [1, 2], [1], [1], [1]]
Output
[null, null, null, null, 2, null, 3]

Explanation
MyLinkedList myLinkedList = new MyLinkedList();
myLinkedList.addAtHead(1);
myLinkedList.addAtTail(3);
myLinkedList.addAtIndex(1, 2);    // linked list becomes 1->2->3
myLinkedList.get(1);              // return 2
myLinkedList.deleteAtIndex(1);    // now the linked list is 1->3
myLinkedList.get(1);              // return 3
```

 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= index, val <= 1000`
- Please do not use the built-in LinkedList library.
- At most `2000` calls will be made to `get`, `addAtHead`, `addAtTail`, `addAtIndex` and `deleteAtIndex`.



```c++
class MyLinkedList {
public:
  MyLinkedList(): head_(nullptr), tail_(nullptr), size_(0) {}
  
  ~MyLinkedList() {  //析构函数，C++特殊的需要 
    Node* node = head_;
    while (node) {
      Node* cur = node;
      node = node->next;
      delete cur;
    }
    head_ = nullptr;
    tail_ = nullptr;
  }
  
  int get(int index) {
    if (index < 0 || index >= size_) return -1;
    auto node = head_;
    while (index--)
      node = node->next;    
    return node->val;
  }
 
  void addAtHead(int val) {    
    head_ = new Node(val, head_);
    if (size_++ == 0)
      tail_ = head_;   
  }
  
  void addAtTail(int val) {
    auto node = new Node(val);
    if (size_++ == 0) {
      head_ = tail_ = node;
    } else {    
      tail_->next = node;
      tail_ = tail_->next;
    }    
  }
 
  void addAtIndex(int index, int val) {
    if (index < 0 || index > size_) return;
    if (index == 0) return addAtHead(val);
    if (index == size_) return addAtTail(val);
    Node dummy(0, head_);
    Node* prev = &dummy;
    while (index--) prev = prev->next;
    prev->next = new Node(val, prev->next);    
    ++size_;
  }
 
  void deleteAtIndex(int index) {
    if (index < 0 || index >= size_) return;
    Node dummy(0, head_);
    Node* prev = &dummy;
    for (int i = 0; i < index; ++i)
      prev = prev->next;
    Node* node_to_delete = prev->next;
    prev->next = prev->next->next;
    if (index == 0) head_ = prev->next;
    if (index == size_ - 1) tail_ = prev;
    delete node_to_delete;
    --size_;
  }
private:
  struct Node {
    int val;
    Node* next;
    Node(int _val): Node(_val, nullptr) {}
    Node(int _val, Node* _next): val(_val), next(_next) {}
  };
  Node* head_;
  Node* tail_;
  int size_;
};

/**
 * Your MyLinkedList object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * MyLinkedList* obj = new MyLinkedList();
 * int param_1 = obj->get(index);
 * obj->addAtHead(val);
 * obj->addAtTail(val);
 * obj->addAtIndex(index,val);
 * obj->deleteAtIndex(index);
 */
```



